JDBC:
    JDBC is an API used in java programming to interact with databases
    The classes and interfaces of JDBC allow the application to send requests made by users to the specified database
    JDBC or Java Database Connectivity is a Java API to connect and execute the query with the database
    It provides the language with java database connectivity standards
    It is used to write programs required to access databases
    JDBC, along with the database driver, can access databases and spreadsheets
    The enterprise data stored in a relational database can be accessed with the help of JDBC APIs.
    Components of JDBC:
        JDBC API: It provides various methods and interfaces for easy communication with the database. It provides two packages as follows, which contain the java SE and Java EE platforms to exhibit, write once run anywhere capabilities
        JDBC Driver manager: It loads a database-specific driver in an application to establish a connection with a database. It is used to make a database-specific call to the database to process the user request
        JDBC Test suite: It is used to test the operation(such as insertion, deletion, updation) being performed by JDBC Drivers
        JDBC-ODBC Bridge Drivers: It connects database drivers to the database. This bridge translates the JDBC method call to the ODBC function call. It makes use of the sun.jdbc.odbc package which includes a native library to access ODBC characteristics
    Architecture of JDBC
        Application: It is a java applet or a servlet that communicates with a data source.
        The JDBC API: The JDBC API allows Java programs to execute SQL statements and retrieve results. Some important classes and interfaces defined in JDBC API are as follows:
        DriverManager: It plays an important role in the JDBC architecture. It uses some database-specific drivers to effectively connect enterprise applications to databases.
        JDBC drivers: To communicate with a data source through JDBC, you need a JDBC driver that intelligently communicates with the respective data source.
    JDBC drivers
        Are client-side adapters that convert requests from Java programs to a protocol that the DBMS can understand. There are 4 types of JDBC drivers
                Type-1 driver or JDBC-ODBC bridge driver
                Type-2 driver or Native-API driver
                Type-3 driver or Network Protocol driver
                Type-4 driver or Thin driver
    Interfaces of JDBC API
        Driver interface
        Connection interface
        Statement interface
        PreparedStatement interface
        CallableStatement interface
        ResultSet interface
        ResultSetMetaData interface
        DatabaseMetaData interface
        RowSet interface
    Classes of JDBC API
        DriverManager class
        Blob class
        Clob class
        Types class